# DEVSOC-19---Team-SURAKSHA
Submission for DEVSOC'19

The Emergency Response System (ERS) is an integral and essential part of a nation’s management policies. In recent times, with the rise in the number of man-made disasters, there is an increasing need for new technologies and policies that could positively impact all phases of emergency management and benefit a large number of people. Albert Einstein once said, “The true sign of intelligence is not knowledge but imagination ”. In our opinion, it is highly important that innovation be the guide for the design of new technology applied in disaster and emergency management. Thousands of people can be impacted by a man-made or natural disaster within seconds and the availability of tools that can help not only before, but also during the response to the devastation can save lives and time.

Here, we present a model for emergency management that will positively impact the ERS and change the way people think how technology fits into preparedness, response and recovery. To begin with, we present an idea of a disaster prediction system that can provide specific statistics regarding the possibility of a calamity, be it man-made or natural. This can help response teams to be prepared before hand and strike the aftermath with spontaneity. Not only the authorities, but the civilians as well, can be made aware of the situation through broadcasts in the affected region(s). At the same time, during a worst case emergency scenario, communication between responders is both necessary and difficult. During this time (predominantly natural disasters such as earthquakes or fires), cellular networks are affected and hence, an underground network of communication channels is suggested. To make this available, emergency communication system devices can be set up at multiple locations within the city, accessible to responders as well as victims whenever needed. The ERS can employ a fleet of drones the scans and classifies the regions which require immediate attention. To deal with the aftermath of the calamity, the proposed system provides suggestions towards management of transportation routes and hospitals aimed at quick rehabilitation.

Big Data, IoT (Internet of Things) and Deep Learning are going to be the key players in this process aimed at revolutionising prevalent emergency response systems. Big Data-powered visualisation tools seem particularly promising for helping real-time sense-making of the weather system as well as for raising awareness of natural hazards among citizens. Moreover, the journey has already begun. IBM has already linked their AI machine, Watson, to the Weather Company, which consists of over 200,000 weather stations in 195 countries. With Watson, these sensors will be able to learn from previous data, and perhaps analyse the signs of a natural disaster occurring well before our current sensors could detect anything. In addition, the UN has already set in motion an innovation initiative - Global Pulse, with the vision of a future in which digital data is harnessed safely and responsibly for the public good.

In conclusion, technology (especially big data) presents immense opportunities for sustainable development and humanitarian action. Hence, we have a vision that can radically change emergency management operations through improvement of response times and optimisation of communication systems so that maximum number of lives can be saved and property damage can be minimized.
